-: Welcome back.
So let's go to the file
04 ALB ingress context path based routing dot YAML,
and let's define the ingress service here.
So let's go back to our Visual Studio Code here.
And we are in zero four ALB ingress context path
based routing.
So this template we have took from the
0802 ALB ingress basics.
So where we have written return 02 ALB
ingress basic with rules, we have copied that
and we have changed the way we need it.
So the first thing, what we need to change here is,
let's go back here to context path based routing
and the name of my service, ingress CPR demo,
context path based routing demo.
And also the load balancer name we are going to
give here is CPR ingress.
And now let's come down here
and change these rules as per our needs, right?
So the first things first is let me,
we are going to implement three apps,
app one app two and then, app three.
So we'll put this as three times the paths,
and the first path is app one.
So for app one,
it need to go to app one Nginx nodeport service.
So if you want to verify the name of our nodeport service,
go to zero one Nginx app one deployment
and this should be app one Nginx nodeport service.
So let me close this,
come back here and put the same thing here, right?
And now the second one is app two
and for app two, the service name is going to be
app two Nginx nodeport service.
So go to zero two
and get the name from here and come back here and put that.
And for the root context, right,
it is going to be app three.
So let's go to zero three Nginx app three
and get the name of the nodeport service app three
Nginx nodeport service, right?
So let me put this here.
So now you can see that for,
whenever the request comes with slash app one,
it goes to app one Nginx nodeport service.
From there, it'll go to app one related pods
and when request comes with slash app two
in the context path URL slash app two,
so then it goes to app two Nginx nodeport service
and from there it'll go to that respective pod,
and same applies for app three Nginx nodeport service,
anything other than app one or app two context,
anything comes, so it goes to
app three Nginx nodeport service.
So let's come back here and move on to the next step.
Next step is to deploy all the manifest and test it.
So let's go back to our terminal here,
go into zero eight, new, right,
which is zero eight new ELB application load balancers.
And inside that, we are going inside 0803,
which is ALB ingress context path based routing.
And if you see here,
we should have the kube manifest folder.
And if you go inside and verify that,
you should find 01, 02, 03 and then 04,
04 is ALB ingress context path based routing YAML.
So let's come out of this and then be inside 0803, right?
And say kubectl
apply
hyphen F and then kube manifest.
So this should deploy three applications
related deployments, nodeport services
and also create a ingress service for us.
So you can see app one Nginx deployment
and app one Nginx nodeport service is completed
and app two Nginx deployment
and nodeport service is created,
in same line, app three Nginx deployment
and app three Nginx nodeport service.
And finally it also created the ingress CPR
demo related ingress service.
So now let's come back here and verify the application pods
and then nodeport services.
So kubectl get ports should provide us the app one, app two
and then app three related Nginx pods created here
and one by one they are ready and then running, no issues.
And we'll also verify the kubectl get SVC,
so which is services and it should display
as the nodeport services, app one, app two and then
app three.
And now let's come back here
and verify the ingress load balancer related service.
So we'll say, "Kubectl get ingress",
and this should display the CPR ingress
CPR demo related ingress service
and it is using the ingress class, my AWS ingress class.
And this is the address it has created,
the load balancer DNS name with port 80.
So let's go back here and if you want we can also
review the rules inside this respective ingress service.
So we need to say kubectl, right,
describe
ingress,
and this is the ingress service name, ingress CPR demo.
And let's see the rules, whatever we have implemented
in our ingress service manifest were created
as expected or not.
So you can see here slash app one goes to
app one Nginx nodeport service on port 80,
and slash app two context path goes to
app two Nginx nodeport service,
and slash goes to app three Nginx nodeport service.
And we didn't define any default backend,
so it's nothing here, right?
So now let's come back here
and you can see successfully reconciled
and there are no error events also here.
And these are the annotations
whatever we have specified, those were displayed here.
So now let's come back here
and verify the load balancer controller logs, right?
So you can go here,
kubectl hyphen n kube system get pods
will provide us the load balancer controller.
And if we want to review the logs also,
we can review these things.
Kubectl hyphen n kube system, right?
And you can say logs
hyphen F.
And for both the pods, you can verify the logs
if there are any errors in those things
because of the ingress service, whatever you have deployed.
So we really don't need to do this,
but it's forever additional learning.
You can see here, registering the targets and so,
and so, you can see all the logs in detail
and understand little bit more, ideally not needed.
So I'll remove this and I'll say, "Clear"
and we'll go to verifying our application load balancer
on AWS management console.
So let's come back here and in EC2, let's go to
load balancers,
and load balancer CPR ingress,
CPR ingress related load balancer is created
and in basic configuration, so you can find the DNS name.
So this DNS name should match whatever we got here,
which is kubectl get ingress, right,
ingress and 1104311640,
1104311640.
So this is good.
And state of the ingress service or the
application load balancer is active
which means we can access in the browser and test it.
So we'll go to that a little bit later.
First we'll go to the listeners and we can see
the port 80 listener is there,
and under this listener,
we will see the what all rules it has been defined.
So you'll go here and you'll find something
like slash app one and whose priority is top most,
the way how you define the priority is,
slash app one will be the first priority.
And, you can see it is going to some, forwarding
to some app one Nginx related target group
and slash app two or slash app two slash star
should go to app two Nginx target group
and slash star goes to app three Nginx target group, right?
So now let's come back here
and go to the target groups, right?
And you should find three target groups, app one, app two
and then app three and all are using the nodeport service
which is nothing but whatever we have defined there.
So let's open one of the target group and verify that.
App one Nginx target group, right?
So total, it has two targets which means, why,
because we have a two worker nodes running.
So those two worker nodes were registered here
with those respective nodeport services
and then respective nodeport service.
And you can see both, from both
of the nodes, it is healthy, the pod is healthy for us.
And now if you see here, the health check path
should be slash app one index dot HTML and,
you can see it is healthy, right?
Even though you have created only one pod,
but the nodeport services span across all the nodes.
So which means in the worker nodes
whenever you are using the nodeport service, right,
so it is span across all the worker nodes in a,
in a worker node group, you have created ten nodes.
So those ten nodes will be registered here
with that respective nodeport service related port,
which means even though you have created only one pod
and it is running in any one of the worker node,
but the concept here is, nodeport service will be,
or the service, Kubernetes service will be
spanned across all the nodes.
In that line, you can see here,
all those nodes will be registered here.
Now let's come back and verify
app two related one and it's health check path.
Those also healthy, both nodes registered
and you can come back here,
and app two index dot HTML is the path for that
and it is working as expected.
And this is the app three Nginx,
which will be with root contact slash index dot HTML
and it is also healthy.
So why we are verifying the health check paths here
very specifically is, so whatever we have defined
at the service level annotation right,
here health check path has been populated here successfully
or not in the ALB application load balancer,
we are cross-checking.
So why, because we said that we have defined
the context part based routing related ingress service,
but we didn't define the health check path here
but we defined at the service level here,
whether it came here successfully or not,
we are cross-checking and it came successfully here
and we can see for all the three parts,
whatever we define in the nodeport service annotations,
so same is populated here.
So now let's come back, right?
So we verified the target groups,
health check paths and everything.
So now finally, we will go ahead
and then access the application.
So how we are going to access it?
So we can take the DNS name from here,
from the load balancer description here
or we can go here and copy this address.
And for app one, it is going to be,
we are going to say slash app one slash index dot HTML,
and you can see it should be coming online now.
So welcome to Stack Simplify and application name is app one
and app one is in light green color.
So now we'll go to slash app two and index dot HTML.
And this should show us app two related things
and you can see, this is in different color.
And now finally, we'll also access
the root context slash index HTML, right?
So whenever we access the route,
so it should be the default app which is
welcome to Stack Simplify Kubernetes fundamentals demo,
application version is V1.
So this is app one.
So this is app two under the app two context
and this is the default app three one
with the root context slash index dot HTML.
And you can see all three are of three different colors.
So the requests are going to three different apps for us.
And if you want to further also verify,
so you can go to kubectl get pods,
and,
for each port right, kubectl logs hyphen F
and then you can go to those pods and then verify the logs.
Let's wait for it.
And you can see slash app one index dot HTML,
the health check path also using the same thing.
So that's the reason you can see the, 190 to 168, 91.189,
all these things are coming from our load balancer,
right, here you can see, this is app one.
So whenever you check the logs for your app one related pod,
so it is saying 200 for app one index dot HTML.
And if you see, for,
kubectl get ports
and if you check for app two,
kubectl logs hyphen F and app two pod,
you should see the health check for app two running there.
So the logs for app two index dot HTML and it is also 200.
And also we will say one more here,
kubectl
get pods, right?
And we will also see for our app three which is,
it should have the health check path for root context.
So let's say logs hyphen F,
and this is the app three Nginx pods.
Come back here and verify this
and it should have slash index dot HTML,
get slash index dot HTML
and it is coming from the ELB health checker.
So this is the thing, and you can see one more here.
This is not ELB health checker.
So whenever we have accessed from the browser,
so Intel, MacOS X10.15, which is my MacOS there,
it has accessed and it is the public IP of my machine,
124:123:166 dot three, right?
So this is the thing.
So this completes the use case, which is,
implement the context path based routing
using ingress service and then test it, right?
So in our next lecture, we are going to
test the context path based routing order,
how important is the defining the order
for our context path based routing.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.